# README #

Octopress plugin to display tag clouds. Based on https://gist.github.com/1577100 by tokkonopapa

Version: 0.3


## Getting Started #

This won't work without a plugin to generate some tag pages. See https://github.com/robbyedwards/octopress-tag-pages for a plugin to take care of this.

Put `tag_cloud.rb` in the `/plugins` folder. Then add `{% tag_cloud %}` where the tag cloud should appear. A couple of sample files are included to demonstrate basic usage, and several options are provided to control the appearance of the tag cloud.


## Usage #

Defines a `tag_cloud` tag that is rendered by Liquid into a tag cloud:

    <div class="cloud">
        {% tag_cloud %}
    </div>

The tag cloud itself is a collection of anchor tags, styled dynamically with the `font-size` CSS property. The range of values, and unit to use for `font-size` can be specified with a very simple syntax:

    {% tag_cloud font-size: 16 - 28px %}

The output is automatically formatted to use the same number of decimal places as used in the argument:

    {% tag_cloud font-size: 0.8  - 1.8em  %}  # => 1
    {% tag_cloud font-size: 0.80 - 1.80em %}  # => 2

Tags that have been used less than a certain number of times can be filtered out from the tag cloud with the optional `threshold` parameter:

    {% tag_cloud threshold: 2 %}

The ouptput can be limited to a certain number of the most frequently occurring tags when the sort method is alphabetical or frequency; i.e., `{% tag_cloud limit: 8 %}` => results in a tag cloud with the eight most frequent tags sorted alphabetically.

When the sort method is random then output is randomly sorted and limited to `@limit` items. Setting the `limit` parameter to zero (the default) will display all tags.

The output can be sorted in three ways:

    {% tag_cloud sort: freq|rand|alpha %}

- `freq` will sort by the frequency of the tag`s occurrence
- `rand` will sort randomly each time the cloud is generated
- `alpha` (the default) will sort the tags in alphabetical order

An optional `order` parameter can also be set, which will change the sort order:

    {% tag_cloud sort: freq|rand|alpha [asc|desc] %}

By default, alphabetical sorts will be asc, and frequency sorts will be desc. The `order` parameter has no effect on random sorts.

The `style` parameter provides a basic way to alter the html that is generated by the plugin:

    {% tag_cloud style: list|para [{:separator}] %}

- `list` wraps each anchor tag in an `<li>` tag for presenting the list as an (un)ordered list. The `{% tag_cloud %}` block needs to be enclosed in either a `<ol>` or a  `<ul>` block where it is included in the site's templates. `list` is the default option. The optional separator will have no effect when the `list` option is used
- `para` removes the enclosing `<li>` tags and separates each item with an optional separator (indicated by :separator above). By default the separator is a comma followed by a space. An alternate separator can be indicated by wrapping the new separator inside curly brackets ({}) following the `para` option, i.e., `{% tag_cloud style: para { &mdash; } %}`

Multiple parameters can be separated by a comma:

    {% tag_cloud font-size: 50 - 150%, threshold: 2 %}


## License #

Copyright (c) 2012 Robby Edwards, http://robbyedwards.com/
Licensed under the MIT license (http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the ‘Software’), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ‘AS IS’, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
